---
layout: post
title: "JSON"
date: 2019-1-1 7:00:00
categories: "GameEngine"
---

At one point while making the engine, I realised that I had to hardcode everything in C++. All texture loads, entity creation, shader loads, materials...

I decided therefore to create a JSON parser (downloaded from github) to parse files to create certain objects like entities.

However, then, I decided to merge every object creation like textures and materials to be via JSON files.

### But this was long

I needed to create a somewhat generic way to create JSON parsers for each file. So I wrote this:

{% highlight c++ %}
template <typename Functor, bool ParseSub = true> class json_loader;
{% endhighlight %}

It takes a `Functor` type which gets called for each JSON node under the top of the hierarchy. `ParseSub` is for whether or not to call specific functors derived from `Functor` mapped to an `unordered_map` to parse elements within the nodes at the top of the hierarchy.

For example for entities.json:
{% highlight json %}
"ground": {
  "direction": {
    "x": 1.0,
    "y": 0.0,
    "z": 0.0
  },
  "model_matrix": true,
  "position": {
    "x": 0.0,
    "y": 0.0,
    "z": 0.0
  },
  "render": {
    "material":  "water",
    "model": "plane"
  },
  "scale": {
    "x": 20.0,
    "y": 20.0,
    "z": 20.0
  }
},
{% endhighlight %}

The parser would go through everything at the level of `"ground"`. For each, a lambda gets called and from then, the functors get called for each sub-node.
For `"direction"`, a functor gets called to assign the entitiy the direction specified.

The ultimate goal, is to make almost everything loaded in from JSON files, or some data file.